# Introduction

OpenVeo translations are grouped by dictionaries (JSON files in i18n directory). Actually the server is capable of returning a dictionary by its name and language. Nothing more. The OpenVeo back end is translated on the client side application (AngularJS).

# Dictionaries

Dictionaries are all stored in **i18n directory**. Dictionary file name is composed of the name of the dictionary followed by the language code :

**[DICTIONARY_NAME]**-**[LANGUAGE_CODE]**.json

With :

- **[DICTIONARY_NAME]** the name of the dictionary
- **[LANGUAGE_CODE]** the language code

**e.g.** **my-dictionary**-**en_ca**.json (will contain translations of dictionary "my-dictionary" for Canadian english)</br>
**e.g.** **my-dictionary**-**fr**.json (will contain translations of dictionary "my-dictionary" for French)

If the dictionary must be accessible only by users authenticated to the back end, you must add the prefix : **admin-**.

**e.g.** **admin-**my-dictionary-en_ca.json

## Get a public dictionary

From client side, you can request a dictionary using **/getDictionary/:dictionary/:code**

**e.g.** **/getDictionary/my-dictionary/en_ca**

## Get a back end dictionary

From client side, you can request a back end dictionary (requiring an authenticated user) using **/be/getDictionary/:dictionary/:code**

**e.g.** **/be/getDictionary/my-dictionary/en_ca**

**Nb :** Your dictionary file will be **admin-my-dictionary-en_ca.json**

You can use the back end AngularJS API (module **ov.i18n**) to help you manipulate dictionaries.

# Add translations to existing dictionary

By default, openveo core defines several dictionaries, one of these dictionaries is the admin-back-office dictionary. You may want to add translations to this dictionary to avoid requesting 2 dictionaries. For example if we want, in our **book** plugin, to add the following translations :

**i18n/admin-back-office-en.json**

```json
{
  "MENU" : {
    "MY_ITEM" : "My menu item"
  }
}
```

Calling **/be/getDictionary/back-office/en** will return :

```json
{
  "CORE" : {
    "MENU" : {
      "WEB_SERVICE" : "Web Service",
      "RIGHTS" : "Rights",
      "ROLES" : "Roles",
      "USERS" : "Users",
      "GROUPS" : "Groups",
      "APPLICATIONS" : "Applications",
      "DASHBOARD" : "Dashboard",
      "PROFILES"  : "Profile",
      "LANGUAGE" : "Language",
      "LOGOUT" : "Logout"
    }
    [...]
  },
  "BOOK" : {
    "MENU" : {
      "MY_ITEM" : "My menu item"
    }
  }
}
```

**Nb :** You can see that you got both yours and core translations. Not that core translations are wrapped into a "CORE" property while your translations are wrapped into a "BOOK" property.